\input texinfo    @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment %**start of header
@setfilename wausers.info
@set VERSION 0.1
@settitle WAusers @value{VERSION}
@comment %**end of header
@copying
This manual is for WAusers, @value{VERSION}.

Copyright @copyright{} 2005, 2006 Brailcom, o.p.s.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts and no Back-Cover Texts.
@end quotation

Alternatively, you can distribute this manual under the same
conditions as WAusers itself:

@quotation
WAusers is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

WAusers is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston,
MA 02110-1301 USA.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Accessibility
@dircategory Web
@direntry
* WAusers: (wausers).           WAassistant trackers manager.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title WAusers
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}
@author Milan Zamazal
@author Brailcom, o.p.s.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Overview, (dir), (dir)
@top WAusers

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::                    What is WAusers?
* Installation::                How to install it.
* Managing Users and Projects:: How to use WAusers.
* Customizing WAusers::         Changing WAusers properties.
* Contact Information::         Bug reporting etc.
* Index::                       
@end menu

@c ****************************************************************************

@node Overview, Installation, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

The WAhelper project (@url{http://www.freebsoft.org/wahelper}) serves
as a software tool for testing accessibility of Web sites.  WAhelper
consists of several components, two of them are:

@table @r
@item WAchecker
@cindex WAchecker
Software library for automated checking accessibility problems of Web
sites.

@item WAassistant
@cindex WAassistant
Web application for managing Web accessibility testing, including
testing by humans and reviewing the problems reported by WAchecker.
@end table

WAusers is an assistive tool for managing multiple WAassistant
installations.  Its typical use is for providing public WAassistant
services, when you need a global site user database with automated
user registration and means for creating new WAassistant projects.

In a standard WAassistant project Roundup administrator creates new
project, then logs in and defines its users, giving them project
specific login names and passwords.  If a WAassistant project is
managed by WAusers instead, new projects are created using a Web
application and WAassistant projects don't store users' passwords,
WAassistant login names are mapped to WAusers login names for the
purpose of authentication.  So a single WAusers user uses the same
password for all WAassistant projects he participates on.

Both WAusers and WAssistant are implemented on top of
@uref{http://roundup.sf.net,Roundup}, a flexible issue tracking
system, and their user interfaces are similar.

@c ****************************************************************************

@node Installation, Managing Users and Projects, Overview, Top
@chapter Installation
@cindex installation

You can download WAusers from @url{http://www.freebsoft.org/wahelper}.
The following pieces of software are required to run it:

@table @r
@item Roundup 0.8
@cindex Roundup
Roundup is a flexible issue tracking system available at
@url{http://roundup.sf.net/}.

@item WAassistant 0.3 or newer
@cindex WAassistant

WAassistant is a Web application for Web accessibility testing,
available at the same place as WAusers,
i.e. @url{http://www.freebsoft.org/wahelper}.
@end table

After installing the required software, unpack the downloaded WAusers
tarball and copy it to the Roundup trackers directory
(e.g. @file{/var/lib/roundup/trackers/} on Debian systems).  Then
follow Roundup tracker installation instructions to install a WAusers
tracker.  Usually you need only one WAusers tracker installed.

In order to be able to create new WAassistant tracker you need
WAassistant template properly installed.  WAusers looks for the
WAassistant template in standard Roundup template directories and the
directory where the WAuser tracker is installed (this is also the
directory where new WAassistant trackers are installed).  The
WAassistant template must contain properly edited configuration files,
WAusers changes only tracker name and URL when installing new
WAassistant projects.

@c ****************************************************************************

@node Managing Users and Projects, Customizing WAusers, Installation, Top
@chapter Managing Users and Projects

WAusers is a very simple application.  It offers user registration
functions, common user interface and administrator's interface.

@menu
* Registration and Login Dialog::  
* Common User Interface::       
* Administrator's Interface::   
@end menu

@node Registration and Login Dialog
@section Registration and Login Dialog

In the starting dialog you can either log in (or ask for a forgotten
password) or to register as a new user if you come to the WAusers site
for the first time.

New users are asked for login name, password, e-mail address and other
contact information.  Providing e-mail address is optional, it serves
currently only for the purpose of resetting forgotten user's password
(it's not possible to reset password for a user without e-mail
address).  In future, it may be used also for sending notices
regarding the WAusers site (such as maintenance notices).  Other
contact information is completely optional, it is displayed to users
participating on the same WAassistant projects.

@node Common User Interface
@section Common User Interface

Regular users who register to the WAusers site can log in and then
perform the following actions:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Create new WAassistant project.  When the project is created, the user
automatically becomes his owner and a user account with the same login
name and all WAassistant roles including administrator privileges is
created.  The user can log in from the list of his projects.

@item
Display the list of projects.  Both the projects owned (created) by
the user and the projects which the user can log into are displayed.
Next to the each project name there is a button for logging into the
project.  Note that a single WAuser user may (depending on the
WAassistant's @samp{same_login} option setting) log into projects
under different login names.

The owner of the project can click on the project name and then to
delete the project using the delete button.

@item
Change his password and/or e-mail address.
@end itemize

@node Administrator's Interface
@section Administrator's Interface

User interface of the @samp{admin} user created when installing the
WAusers tracker is different.  The administrator can perform the
following actions:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Displaying the list of all projects and their administrators.  There
is nothing else the administrator can do with the projects.

@item
Displaying the list of all registered users and editing them.  The
administrator has the power to create, edit and delete users.
@end itemize

@c ****************************************************************************

@node Customizing WAusers, Contact Information, Managing Users and Projects, Top
@chapter Customizing WAusers
@cindex customization

WAusers is a regular Roundup application.  Refer to Roundup
configuration, customization and design documentation to learn how to
customize Roundup applications including WAusers.

@c ****************************************************************************

@node Contact Information, Index, Customizing WAusers, Top
@chapter Contact Information
@cindex bugs
@cindex contact
@cindex home page

WAusers home page is located at
@uref{http://www.freebsoft.org/wahelper}.

If you have any questions, suggestions, bug reports or anything else
to tell us, feel free to contact us on the mailing list
@email{wahelper@@lists.freebsoft.org}.

@c ****************************************************************************

@node Index,  , Contact Information, Top
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
